**The CIA triad for analysts**

The **CIA triad** is a model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies. It is made up of three elements that cybersecurity analysts and organizations work toward upholding: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Maintaining an acceptable level of risk and ensuring systems and policies are designed with these elements in mind helps establish a successful **security posture**, which refers to an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. 

#Confidentiality 

**Confidentiality** is the idea that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. In an organization, confidentiality can be enhanced through the implementation of design principles, such as the principle of least privilege. The principle of least privilege limits users' access to only the information they need to complete work-related tasks. Limiting access is one way of maintaining the confidentiality and security of private data. 

#Integrity

**Integrity** is the idea that the data is verifiably correct, authentic, and reliable. Having protocols in place to verify the authenticity of data is essential. One way to verify data integrity is through [cryptography](https://www.nist.gov/cryptography#:~:text=Cryptography%20uses%20mathematical%20techniques%20to,that%20drives%20research%20and%20innovation.), which is used to transform data so unauthorized parties cannot read or tamper with it (NIST, 2022). Another example of how an organization might implement integrity is by enabling encryption, which is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Encryption can be used to prevent access and ensure data, such as messages on an organization's internal chat platform, cannot be tampered with.  

#Availability 

**Availability** is the idea that data is accessible to those who are authorized to use it. When a system adheres to both availability and confidentiality principles, data can be used when needed. In the workplace, this could mean that the organization allows remote employees to access its internal network to perform their jobs. It’s worth noting that access to data on the internal network is still limited, depending on what type of access employees need to do their jobs. If, for example, an employee works in the organization’s accounting department, they might need access to corporate accounts but not data related to ongoing development projects. 

**Key takeaways**

The CIA triad is essential for establishing an organization’s security posture. Knowing what it is and how it’s applied can help you better understand how security teams work to protect organizations and the people they serve. 

The CSF is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.

The CSF consists of five important core functions, identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover,

The first core function is identify, which is related to the management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization's people and assets

The second core function is protect, which is the strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats.

The third core function is detect, which means identifying potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections.

The fourth function is respond, which means making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process.

The fifth core function is recover, which is the process of returning affected systems back to normal operation.

## OWASP

#OWASP security principles (Open Web Application Security Project)

1.  ==minimize the attack surface area==
	An attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities that a threat actor could exploit, like attack vectors, which are pathways attackers use to penetrate security defenses. Examples of common attack vectors are phishing emails and weak passwords. To minimize the attack surface and avoid incidents from these types of vectors, security teams might disable software features, restrict who can access certain assets, or establish more complex password requirements.

2.  The ==principle of least privilege== means making sure that users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.
	The main reason for limiting access to organizational information and resources is to reduce the amount of damage a security breach could cause. For example, as an entry-level analyst, you may have access to log data, but may not have access to change user permissions. Therefore, if a threat actor compromises your credentials, they'll only be able to gain limited access to digital or physical assets, which may not be enough for them to deploy their intended attack.

3.  ==defense in depth==
	Defense in depth means that an organization should have multiple security controls that address risks and threats in different ways. One example of a security control is multi-factor authentication, or MFA, which requires users to take an additional step beyond simply entering their username and password to gain access to an application. Other controls include firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and permission settings that can be used to create multiple points of defense, a threat actor must get through to breach an organization.

4.  ==separation of duties==
	This principle means that no one should be given so many privileges that they can misuse the system. For example, the person in a company who signs the paychecks shouldn't also be the person who prepares them.

5.  ==Keep security simple==
	As the name suggests, when implementing security controls, unnecessarily complicated solutions should be avoided because they can become unmanageable. The more complex the security controls are, the harder it is for people to work collaboratively.

6. ==fix security issues correctly==
	Technology is a great tool, but can also present challenges. When a security incident occurs, security professionals are expected to identify the root cause quickly. From there, it's important to correct any identified vulnerabilities and conduct tests to ensure that repairs are successful.
