#security_audit #scope #goals
Establishing the scope and goals of the audit, conducting a risk assessment of the organization's assets, completing a controls assessment, assessing compliance, and communicating results to stakeholders.

#Scope refers to the specific criteria of an internal security audit. Scope requires organizations to identify people, assets, policies, procedures, and technologies that might impact an organization's security posture. Goals are an outline of the organization's security objectives, or what they want to achieve in order to improve their security posture.

#user_permissions
As an example, the scope of this audit involves assessing user permissions; identifying existing controls, policies, and procedures; and accounting for the technology currently in use by the organization. The goals outlined include implementing core functions of frameworks, like the NIST CSF; establishing policies and procedures to ensure compliance; and strengthening system controls.

Conducting a risk assessment, which is focused on identifying potential threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
This helps organizations consider what security measures should be implemented and monitored to ensure the safety of assets.

A controls assessment involves closely reviewing an organization's existing assets, then evaluating potential risks to those assets, to ensure internal controls and processes are effective. To do this, entry-level analysts might be tasked with classifying controls into the following categories: administrative controls, technical controls, and physical controls.


Administrative controls are related to the human component of cybersecurity. They include policies and procedures that define how an organization manages data, such as the implementation of password policies.
Technical controls are hardware and software solutions used to protect assets, such as the use of intrusion detection systems, or IDS's, and encryption.
Physical controls refer to measures put in place to prevent physical access to protected assets, such as surveillance cameras and locks.

The next element is determining whether or not the organization is adhering to necessary compliance regulations. As a reminder, compliance regulations are laws that organizations must follow to ensure private data remains secure.
The final common element of an internal security audit is communication. Once the internal security audit is complete, results and recommendations need to be communicated to stakeholders. In general, this type of communication summarizes the scope and goals of the audit. Then, it lists existing risks and notes how quickly those risks need to be addressed. Additionally, it identifies compliance regulations the organization needs to adhere to and provides recommendations for improving the organization's security posture.
