Previously, you were introduced to how to plan and complete an internal security audit. In this reading, you will learn more about security audits, including the goals and objectives of audits.

**Security audits**

A **security audit** is a review of an organization's security controls, policies, and procedures against a set of expectations. Audits are independent reviews that evaluate whether an organization is meeting internal and external criteria. Internal criteria include outlined policies, procedures, and best practices. External criteria include regulatory compliance, laws, and federal regulations.

Additionally, a security audit can be used to assess an organization's established security controls. As a reminder, **security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. 

Audits help ensure that security checks are made (i.e., daily monitoring of security information and event management dashboards), to identify threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. This helps maintain an organization’s security posture. And, if there are security issues, a remediation process must be in place.

**Goals and objectives of an audit**

The goal of an audit is to ensure an organization's information technology (IT) practices are meeting industry and organizational standards. The objective is to identify and address areas of remediation and growth. Audits provide direction and clarity by identifying what the current failures are and developing a plan to correct them. 

Security audits must be performed to safeguard data and avoid penalties and fines from governmental agencies. The frequency of audits is dependent on local laws and federal compliance regulations.

**Factors that affect audits**

Factors that determine the types of audits an organization implements include: 

- Industry type
- Organization size
- Ties to the applicable government regulations
- A business’s geographical location
- A business decision to adhere to a specific regulatory compliance

To review common compliance regulations that different organizations need to adhere to, refer to [the reading about controls, frameworks, and compliance](https://www.coursera.org/learn/foundations-of-cybersecurity/supplement/xu4pr/controls-frameworks-and-compliance).

**The role of frameworks and controls in audits**

Along with compliance, it’s important to mention the role of frameworks and controls in security audits. Frameworks such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF) and the international standard for information security (ISO 27000) series are designed to help organizations prepare for regulatory compliance security audits. By adhering to these and other relevant frameworks, organizations can save time when conducting external and internal audits. Additionally, frameworks, when used alongside controls, can support organizations’ ability to align with regulatory compliance requirements and standards. 

There are three main categories of controls to review during an audit, which are administrative and/or managerial, technical, and physical controls. To learn more about specific controls related to each category, click the following link and select “Use Template.” 

Link to template: [Control categories](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ut_H5A9FHwuQEy6_qG6Lfy3zwF6GSJnj3DZTMaNRWEE/template/preview?resourcekey=0-i4dR5qZFqQyfzr8uk3OOmA)

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the following attachment

[](https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/o6XzbUnYRK6pwAtl0ME25Q_3c91489225e04f408952ba8a8595e0f1_Control-categories.docx?Expires=1696032000&Signature=NeFv8HhfQJcOAUWihz4D8IqWe0TfmqFix-RZxECECvgqzT9mRdlc002-hn1QljnpLF0nVkZOucz9cyXL9~Oo8iKsSu7r1FisEx1-BbAGNc9b2EddCYjvXkd-38coLpkEAA6QJjgxw1U--ojp2od4hyAf4Q55-JG7UgonPJuPDvU_&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A)

[Control categories](https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/o6XzbUnYRK6pwAtl0ME25Q_3c91489225e04f408952ba8a8595e0f1_Control-categories.docx?Expires=1696032000&Signature=NeFv8HhfQJcOAUWihz4D8IqWe0TfmqFix-RZxECECvgqzT9mRdlc002-hn1QljnpLF0nVkZOucz9cyXL9~Oo8iKsSu7r1FisEx1-BbAGNc9b2EddCYjvXkd-38coLpkEAA6QJjgxw1U--ojp2od4hyAf4Q55-JG7UgonPJuPDvU_&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A)

[DOCX File](https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/o6XzbUnYRK6pwAtl0ME25Q_3c91489225e04f408952ba8a8595e0f1_Control-categories.docx?Expires=1696032000&Signature=NeFv8HhfQJcOAUWihz4D8IqWe0TfmqFix-RZxECECvgqzT9mRdlc002-hn1QljnpLF0nVkZOucz9cyXL9~Oo8iKsSu7r1FisEx1-BbAGNc9b2EddCYjvXkd-38coLpkEAA6QJjgxw1U--ojp2od4hyAf4Q55-JG7UgonPJuPDvU_&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A)