
Packet sniffing is the practice of using software tools to observe data as it moves across a network.

Malicious actors may insert themselves in the middle of an authorized connection between two devices. Then they can use packet sniffing to spy on every data packet as it comes across their device. The goal is to find valuable information in the data packets that they can then use to their advantage. Attackers can use software applications or a hardware device to look into data packets. Malicious actors can access a network packet with a packet sniffer and make changes to the data. They may change the information in the body of the packet, like altering a recipient's bank account number.

***Passive packet sniffing*** is a type of attack where data packets are read in transit. Since all the traffic on a network is visible to any host on the hub, malicious actors can view all the information going in and out of the device they are targeting. Thinking back to the example of a letter being delivered, we can compare a passive packet sniffing attack to a postal delivery person maliciously reading somebody's mail. The postal worker, or packet sniffer, has the right to deliver the mail, but not the right to read the information inside. 

***Active packet sniffing*** is a type of attack where data packets are manipulated in transit. This may include injecting internet protocols to redirect the packets to an unintended port or changing the information the packet contains. Active packet sniffing attack would be like a neighbor telling the delivery person "I'll deliver that mail for you," and then reading the mail or changing the letter before putting it in your mailbox. Even though your neighbor knows you and even if they deliver it to the correct house, they are actively going out of their way to engage in malicious behavior.